This README file describes the COSMOS F814W<23.5 training sample that is used for GREAT3.

(1) The catalog itself is real_galaxy_catalog_23.5.fits.  This file can be used to initialize a
galsim.RealGalaxyCatalog instance, and contains a FITS table that could also be read in directly
using e.g. python or IDL.  The fields that are included for each galaxy are:

IDENT: COSMOS identifier from the Leauthaud et al. (2010) catalog.  Please be aware that the COSMOS
catalog has been updated, which resulted in changed identifiers for some objects between different
catalog versions.  You should therefore not rely on this IDENT for cross-matching between other
COSMOS catalogs unless you are sure that the system of identifiers is the same.

RA, DEC: Right ascension and declination (J2000, degrees).  While this is not needed for image
simulation, it is necessary for proper cross-matching with other catalogs.

MAG: F814W magnitude (MAG_AUTO in COSMOS catalog).

BAND: Passband for the observed image (F814W in all cases).

WEIGHT: A weight factor to use to account for the fact that larger galaxies are preferentially
excluded from this catalog due to the proximity to CCD edges.

GAL_FILENAME: Name of the file containing the galaxy image.  This is just a filename, not including
a full path.

PSF_FILENAME: Name of the file containing the PSF image for this galaxy.  This is just a filename,
not including a full path.

GAL_HDU: HDU containing the image of this galaxy in the file called GAL_FILENAME.

PSF_HDU: HDU containing the image of the PSF for this galaxy in the file called PSF_FILENAME.

PIXEL_SCALE: Pixel scale for the galaxy and PSF images in arcsec (0.03 in all cases).

NOISE_MEAN: Mean value of the pixels in the image that do not contain the galaxy.

NOISE_VARIANCE: Variance of the pixel values for pixels in the image that do not contain the galaxy.


(2) The files containing galaxy and PSF images are real_galaxy_images_23.5_n?.fits and
real_galaxy_PSF_images_23.5_n?.fits. The number that goes in place of the "?" ranges from 0 to 57.


(3) A catalog containing information about the fits to the galaxies in
real_galaxy_catalog_23.5.fits, using the fitting code from Lackner & Gunn (2012, MNRAS, 421, 2277)
as described in the GREAT3 challenge handbook.  The catalog of fit information is
real_galaxy_catalog_23.5_fits.fits (a FITS table), and the entries are in the same order as in
real_galaxy_catalog_23.5.fits.  The file contains the following fields:

IDENT: COSMOS identifier.

MAG_AUTO: F814W magnitude (MAG_AUTO in COSMOS catalog).

FLUX_RADIUS: Half-light radius for the PSF-convolved object (flux_radius from the COSMOS catalog),
in units of pixels.

ZPHOT: Photometric redshift from the COSMOS catalog (Ilbert et al. 2009, ApJ, 690, 1236) version
1.7, as measured using the galaxy templates. Median of the maximum likelihood distribution ("zPDF"
in Ilbert catalog).

SERSICFIT: An array of 8 numbers which are the results of fitting the galaxy image to a single
Sersic profile with free n.  The array entries are:

       SERSICFIT[0]: I, defined as the intensity at the half-light radius.
       SERSICFIT[1]: R_{1/2}, the half-light radius measured along the major axis, in pixels.
       SERSICFIT[2]: Sersic n.
       SERSICFIT[3]: q, the ratio of minor axis to major axis length.
       SERSICFIT[4]: boxiness (fixed to 0, for elliptical isophotes).
       SERSICFIT[5]: x0, the central x position in pixels.
       SERSICFIT[6]: y0, the central y position in pixels.
       SERSICFIT[7]: phi, the position angle in radians (if phi=0, the major axis is lined up with
                     the x axis of the image).

       GalSim wants to know the half-light radius that is the geometric mean of the major and minor
       axis lengths, and typically works in terms of arcsec, so when initializing the galsim.Sersic
       object, use a half-light-radius of 
       hlr=0.03*sqrt(q)*R_{1/2}.

       To relate these quantities to the object total flux that is needed to define the object in
       GalSim, use the value of b_n for that Sersic n, and define
       flux = 2pi*n*Gamma[2n]*exp(b_n)*hlr^2*I/(b_n^(2n)).

BULGEFIT: An array of 16 numbers which are the results of fitting the galaxy image to a de
Vaucouleurs bulge plus an exponential disk.  The array entries are the same as for SERSICFIT, with 8
numbers for the disk followed by 8 for the bulge.  In this case, the disk and bulge values of n are
fixed to 1 and 4, respectively, and they are required to have the same centroid.

FIT_STATUS: An array of 5 numbers indicating the status of the fit.  The first of those numbers is
the status for BULGEFIT, and the last of those 5 numbers is the status for SERSICFIT.  A status of 0
or 5 indicates failure.

FIT_MAD_S: the median absolute deviation between the image and the SERSICFIT model, as determined in
a region containing primarily pixels in the galaxy (not sky).  This can be used comparatively with
FIT_MAD_B to determine which is a better description of the galaxy.

FIT_MAD_B: same as FIT_MAD_S, but for the BULGEFIT model.

FIT_DVC_BTT: The bulge-to-total flux ratio (B/T) for the 2-component BULGEFIT.
